---
layout: post
title: Gathering Momentum
description: Selected quotes from what I considered were the best books I read/listened to in 2024.
date: 2024-12-31 17:34:00 +0200
author: paulo
image: '/images/2024-12-31-top-10-books-2024-img01.jpg'
image_caption: Generated by DALL·E (OpenAI), based on the quote from Training Essentials for Ultrarunning.
tags: [enterpreneurship, running]
featured: 
---

It has been a while since I last touched this blog. Life seems to move at increadible speeds lately, too difficult to keep up with all the latest of the latest of the latest of what is happening in the world, in any realm. 


## the preamble

Towards the end of 2024 and begining on 2025, I worked with friends on a project in private equity. The idea was simple, private equity investors are constantly looking for companies to invest in/buy. Their preferences would always go according to some theme, say security, real estate, motorized wheel chairs, you name it. 

Originally, a market analylist would spend days looking for leads on the internet until a good match was found. This process could be automated with the dropping costs of LLMs like O4 mini. 

## what about running?

I felt like this approach could solve many issues in the running world. Some of the biggest issues I see are 

* people gravitate to the same big races (pareto effect), leaving many small races undiscovered. Yes, this is the pareto effect. But if you want to keep racing you should not leave it to the fate of the loteries of races like the berlin marathon. 
* runners seem to go to races in packs. They often have friends, or there is a connection to the race. Running is difficult, and after the fact, I think it is difficult to celebrate all on your own. So better to go together.
* It is difficult to compare races. Specially trail races. There are too many variables. Yes, ITRA points and UTMB stones are a good measure of comparing races, but then many smaller races around the world would be left behind. 
* Runners must sign up to their races earlier and earlier as the running becomes more popular. By the time your friends are already signed up and you find out about it, you no longer have a chance. Leaving you searching for bibs in the market, avoiding rigid rules about passing of your bib, etc. 

## the patterns

I see two patterns in the world of running. There is running discoverability from websites who carry their own interests. Pages like Ahotu carry many races, but not all. Their business model involves transaction commissions and event promotion. ITRA lists all races that are under the ITRA umbrella. Same for UTMB. There is a direct relationshiop between the organizers of the event and the running search engine.

None of the above have the most essential piece of the puzzle in mind, the runner. The participant of this event. 

## the status quo

I am part of a couple of running chats on e.g. whatsapp. I often see that people ask if others are joining a race, but then the message get drown the past with other messages of people selling stuff, asking questions, etc. Or the race participants often take themselves to another whatsapp chat, leaving new comers clueless about people's plans to go to races. 

There seems to be a desire to discover races not from the top (the race) to the bottom (finding someone to go with) but from the bottom (let's all go run in Greece this coming year) to the top (let's check races available and see what other people are going).

## the solution

During my digital nomad years in Fuerteventura, we used a digital nomads slack channel where we coordinated everything, from coworking, networking, sports, accomodation, etc. This digital nomads became later on a website where the same slack chats would be created for people in different cities, e.g. Lisbon, Medellin, etc. 

Wouldn't it be great to have such a slack channel for cities? Say, the running community of Berlin. Something broader than the scope of your particular running club. It would make sense because having people from the same geo location helps them 

